***** File BACKGRND.TXT                                                       
                                                                              
                                                                              
                     CD-ROM Background                                        
                                                                              
As the International Halley Watch (IHW) became a reality during 1980-81,      
it became obvious that distribution of images in any digital form would       
be a problem because of the enormous amount of data involved.  If we          
were half as successful as expected, a single copy of the Halley Archive      
would require several hundred tapes, making it bulky, expensive and not       
readily useable.  We began to explore optical storage, a technique which      
offers much denser packing than the more well known forms of magnetic         
storage.                                                                      
                                                                              
Since the IHW was producing an archive, there was no need to use a            
medium that the could be overwritten.  What was needed were longevity,        
accuracy, speedy access, and a standardized format for which cheap            
playback equipment was readily available.  Cost and ease of production        
were clearly factors as well.  We were leaning toward CD-ROM (Compact         
Disc Read Only Memory) already in August 1985 when M. Martin of the           
Pilot Planetary Data System (now the PDS) gave a complete rundown on the      
status of various optical media for data storage at one of our general        
meetings.  Clearly CD-ROM was the only medium likely to meet our needs        
in the appropriate time frame. Data transfer was a bit slow and the disk      
held only 680 MBytes each, but the technology was in place, being             
standardized and rapidly coming down in cost.  We chose the CD-ROM for        
the IHW Archive at that time.                                                 
                                                                              
The early 1980's had seen the introduction of optical techniques, i.e.,       
the encoding of digital signals with a laser beam onto a plastic medium       
for storage purposes.  These techniques were usually called laser video,      
in part due to the popularity of a commercial venture to record movies.       
The CAV (constant angular velocity) structure of the disk was similar to      
magnetic media but the laser beam recorded pits (or bubbles) to               
represent digital information.  The early attempts at using this              
approach were done in a publishing mode, e.g., the digital data was sent      
to a mastering facility for recording onto plastic replicas.                  
Originally, the information on the laser disc was read back as analog         
signals for display on TV or similar bandwidth monitors.  This approach       
was investigated by JPL to hold planetary images with the added               
condition that the data remain in digital form.  The limited resolution       
and proprietary nature of the digital technique made this approach            
unworkable.                                                                   
                                                                              
At about the same time, commercial products were emerging that allowed        
the scientist to directly encode the data onto the optical media.  This       
approach was generally known as write-once, read-many or WORM technology.     
These platters ranged in size from 5.25" to 14" with corresponding            
storage capacities from 300 - 1000 MBytes per side.  These optical discs      
are often double sided.  Some now use the CLV (constant linear velocity)      
recording format to increase packing of the data up to 1600 MBytes per        
side.  A problem with this technology was that the encoding process,          
physical format, and platter size were never standardized.                    
Nevertheless, the longevity of this medium (>30 years) is a prime factor      
for its use as in-house archives.                                             
                                                                              
Commercial laser discs soon used this same CLV technique for "extended        
play". Algorithms had been developed to use the change in reflection          
(pit versus land) to indicate digital data so that information is stored      
as a channel bit. In addition, a smaller size (4.72" or 12 cm) was            
promoted for the audio market. In looking at the failure of the laser         
disc to compete with videotape, vendors saw the need to standardize on a      
physical format.  Early in the production of audio CDs, Philips and SONY      
reached an agreement on the physical structure of discs.  The so-called       
Red Book described the size of the disc, placement of center hole,            
useable area, and encoding of the data In one "frame", there are 588          
channel bits which are converted to 24 bytes of data using a look-up          
table termed an eight to fourteen modulation (EFM). A total of 98 frames      
make up a data sector or 2352 bytes of information.                           
                                                                              
This agreement meant that all CDs could be read on any player and             
consequently standardized the player rotation (230-500 rpm) and transfer      
speed (174 KB/s). The physical coding followed the CLV technique and was      
along one spiral; data could be located according to a                        
minute:second:sector scheme.  Random access to any part of the data was       
allowed and the terminology of tracks was introduced to identify              
individual files.  The original Red Book agreement permitted up to 79         
minutes of audio, i.e., 728 MBytes of storage but typically only 60           
minutes is mastered.  Since there are 75 sectors per second, then a           
typical storage for 60 minutes is quoted as 540 MBytes of available           
data. The CD audio explosion of the mid-1980s showed the wisdom of this       
approach.                                                                     
                                                                              
SONY and Philips also realized the potential for this medium to store         
other digital data for distribution if the error correction could be          
improved. Using a layered EDC/ECC scheme to improve upon the standard         
error correction code called CIRC (Cross Interleaved Reed-Solomon             
Correction) by 10000 times meant that character, tabular, and image data      
could be archived on CD-ROM. Eventually, a Yellow Book to describe the        
physical encoding of this data was promoted having the same structure as      
audio CDs, i.e., 2048 bytes blocks with 304 bytes for housekeeping.           
Typical error rates indicate only one lost bit per 2000 disks.                
                                                                              
The use of the CLV recording format provides maximum data packing but         
has the disadvantage of slow access times when compared to other media        
using the CAV approach.  Access time usually includes the changing speed      
for the disk, the radial movement of the laser diode which requires a         
settling time, and the location procedure that often demands a full           
rotation of the disk.  Current players have reduced the access times to       
under 400 msec, or a factor of 4 slower than typical magnetic hard            
disks.  Coupled with the low transfer rates set by the audio                  
requirements (150 KB/s of useful data) means that the placement of data       
on the CD-ROM requires a strategy for efficient use.  These                   
disadvantages are outweighed by the low cost of this medium and its           
longevity as an archiving tool.                                               
                                                                              
When the CD-ROM technique became accepted as a digital storage medium, a      
number of vendors attempted to write application software, primarily for      
PCs.  This resulted in proprietary formats which quickly became non-          
standard.  At about this time, Microsoft organized an informal working        
group that developed a logical structure then called the High Sierra          
proposal. Eventually, this resolution was modified and has been               
documented as the International Standards Organization 9660 format.  At       
this writing, even those vendors with propietary formats such as UNIFILE      
(DEC) and HFS (APPLE) have announced there support of that standard.  In      
the PC market, Microsoft has supported an extension to MS-DOS which is        
supplied in its 4.0 operating system.                                         
                                                                              
The main advantage of this logical structure is that there are well           
defined rules for volume descriptors, placement of files, record              
structures and nested levels of interchange.  Specifically, the Volume        
Table of Contents (VTOC) must come first and provide information about        
the volume (compact disc). Descriptors in the data area identify the          
volume, establish a character set, locate the path table, and indicate        
the presence of boot records.  Data is located by logical sectors (2048       
byte blocks) or a finer division into logical blocks (minimum 512             
bytes).  The path table provides a quick means to point at data since         
the structure is hierarchical as in MS-DOS.  Finally, Extended Attribute      
Records (XAR) are defined to carry associated information about the           
record structure, key dates, global permission, and hidden files.             
                                                                              
The key to this standard is its three levels of interchange which span        
various machines and operating systems.  In the lowest, Level 1, a file       
is a continuous byte stream spanning only one section.  Directory and         
file names are restricted to 8 characters with a 3 character file             
extension allowed.  This level is designed for PC style machines but          
must be acceptable to drivers for higher levels.  At Level 2, a mixed         
mode of data is allowed, primarily to support a possible media extension      
termed CD-I or its competing format CD-V.  Finally, Level 3 includes          
features for detailed file names or directories up to 31 characters and       
full support of XARs.  It is this latter provision which permits              
developers of UNIX and VMS operating systems to make use of this storage      
medium.                                                                       
                                                                              
The advent of these standards has proved to be a major advantage to           
archivists. The low cost of the media, players, and widespread                
applications insures that the data can be widely distributed; the             
longevity for optical media is considerably greater than more volatile        
magnetic storage and could rival such media as photographic plates.  But      
there are disadvantages to this approach.                                     
                                                                              
The CD-ROM is really a "publishing" media.  In the data preparation           
phase, the archivist has complete control over integrity and structure.       
In order to produce the CD-ROM, this data needs to be shipped to a            
commercial vendor for actual replication.  To insure that the                 
organization of the data follows archivist's standards, the "pre-             
mastering" phase is often done in-house. In this way, the directories,        
path table, and layout of the disc, as well as customized application         
programs can be tested on the complete data set.  Once the integrity of       
the data is secure then final tapes in the ISO format are sent to a           
mastering facility.  There the actual EDC/ECC is supplied, along with         
synch information to complete the pre-mastering phase.                        
                                                                              
In a typical mastering process, a laser etches the pits into a                
photoresistant glass disk which is developed and silvered for testing;        
in some plants, two masters are produced so that the costly data              
encoding process is not repeated. Once the glass master has been              
verified by comparison with the original tapes, a metal stamper is            
formed; it is the stamper that is used to create the plastic replicas by      
a process called injection molding.  In some cases, the stamper itself        
is read as part of the testing procedure.  Once the replicas have been        
given a reflective coating, the artwork is silk screened onto the label       
area.  The production run of compact discs is given a rigorous quality        
check that may include testing all discs for portions of the data.  Most      
vendors offer a warranty against defects within a storage range, e.g.,        
680 MBytes. The final plastic replica is dust and scratch resistant.  It      
is placed into a plastic container termed a jewel box, which is usually       
sealed in a shrink wrapper for shipping.  Most data discs have software       
resident on an accompanying floppy, although the entire package               
including command file can be specified, and therefore made to be self        
booting on the user delivery system.                                          
                                                                              
Creation of the IHW Archive has required several advances in data             
formatting and handling.  Astronomical data transfer began to be              
standardized with acceptance by the International Astronomical Union of       
a system called FITS (Flexible Image Transport System).  The IHW adopted      
this format including an extension to FITS generated for tabular              
material.  The IHW has now proposed and is using a further extension for      
compressed data.  In the meantime, the PDS has developed an independent       
system of formatting data which has some advantages over FITS.  The IHW       
and the PDS have cooperated by including detached PDS "header" records        
for the Archive so either data format can be accessed.  The National          
Space Science Data Center (NSSDC), with some help from the IHW, has           
installed a CD-ROM pre-master station which has been used to prepare          
this test CD-ROM for the IHW and ultimately will premaster the entire IHW     
Archive. Techniques for indexing CD-ROMs are being developed by the           
NSSDC and IHW for the database comprised of the Comet Giacobini-Zinner        
ground-based and space observations.  The software required to read           
CD-ROM stored data has been continuously developed by the PDS and has         
been made available to the IHW and NSSDC. Additional software will be         
developed, if necessary, to permit access to all IHW data formats.  The       
present Archive would not have been possible without the close and            
enthusiastic cooperation of the IHW, the NSSDC, and the PDS.                  
