*****  FILE INDXINFO.TXT                                                      
                                                                              
                                                                              
                            Index File Information                            
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
     This file contains a description of the index files created for the      
Quicklook tables and from the P/Giacobini-Zinner printed archive. The         
Quicklook tables are in this directory, while the printed archive tables are  
in the PRNTARCH subdirectory below this one.  There is also a list of         
contributing observatories for P/Giacobini-Zinner data.                       
                                                                              
     There are fourteen files in this directory (besides this file). The first
five (OBSCODES.DBF, OBSCODES.IDX, OBSCODES.HDR, OBSCODES.LBL and OBSCODES.STR)
are the database, index and structure files of IHW codes for the contributing 
observatories. Two (QWIKPRE.IDX and QWIKPOST.IDX) are delimited tables        
containing the values, in chronological order, of the IHW mandatory keywords  
for all disciplines. The tables contain information from pre-perihelion and   
post-perihelion respectively. Two (QWIKPRE.DBF and QWIKPOST.DBF) are dBASE    
III+ compatible database files, containing no records.  Similarly, *.HDR and  
*.LBL are associated FITS header and PDS label files, respectively.  The last 
file (QWIK.STR) is a structure file describing the fields present in the .IDX 
files. See the following description of the printed archive tables for more   
complete details.                                                             
                                                                              
     The PRNTARCH subdirectory contains all of the printed archive index      
tables. Some disciplines have more than one kind of table in the printed      
archive, corresponding to the different subnetworks. Each of the distinct     
types of table included in the printed archive have been translated into a    
machine readable index file in this directory.                                
                                                                              
     There are six types of files in the PRNTARCH subdirectory, distinguished 
by the extensions on the file names. The filenames themselves identify the    
discipline and subnet which was used to produce each index. The types of files
are:                                                                          
                                                                              
        *.HDR - These are complete FITS headers for the data tables.  A       
                fully-qualified FITS table may be created from the data table 
                by appending the .IDX file to the associated .HDR file, then  
                adjusting the length of the resulting file with the program   
                FITSXTND.                                                     
                                                                              
        *.LBL - These are PDS labels describing the data tables.  They already
                contain pointers to the data tables, so no further steps are  
                required to make them accessible to PDS table-processing      
                software.                                                     
                                                                              
        *.DBF - These are dBASE III+ compatible database files. They do not   
                contain any data records, only the structure of the           
                corresponding database. The data records may be appended from 
                the data tables (in the .IDX files). Many database management 
                systems can import databases from .DBF files.                 
                                                                              
        *.IDX - These files contain the actual data records from each table.  
                They are delimited tables. Numeric fields are delimited by    
                commas (,) and ASCII text fields are contained in quotes (")  
                and also delimited with commas. Each line ends with the       
                characters <CR><LF> (ASCII 13 and 10 respectively). All fields
                in the tables are fixed width to facilitate their use in that 
                format, as well. These files may be appended to the end of an 
                empty database structure to create the full index database.   
                                                                              
        *.STR - These are "structure" files. They contain information, in     
                delimited format, on the number, names and widths of the      
                fields in each database. They can used by dBASE III for       
                creating the printed archive index tables, and also document  
                the structure of each table.                                  
                                                                              
     There is one additional file (STRUCT.DBF) in this subdirectory. This is  
the database used to create all the other databases. It consists of 4 fields, 
FIELD_NAME, FIELD_TYPE, FIELD_LEN and FIELD_DEC, which document the structure 
of the index tables. When the appropriate .STR file is appended to this       
structure database, dBASE III+ can create the corresponding printed archive   
index database.                                                               
