***** File PREFACE.TXT                                                        
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                PREFACE                                       
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
    The International Halley Watch (IHW) grew out of a National Aeronautics   
and Space Administration (NASA) sponsored study in 1979-80 led by Louis       
Friedman of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). The premise behind that study
was that some form of cooperation among the astronomers and space scientists  
of the world would be necessary to make the most of the once per lifetime     
opportunity to study Comet Halley. It was obvious that international          
cooperation required sponsorship by the International Astronomical Union      
(IAU), and that had to be obtained at the 1982 General Assembly of the IAU    
or preparations could not be ready in time for Halley. This set the timing    
for creation of the entire IHW organization.                                  
                                                                              
    In 1980 NASA organized a Lead Center for the western hemisphere at JPL    
under Ray Newburn. A similar facility for the eastern hemisphere was organized
at Dr. Remeis Sternwarte, Bamberg, under Juergen Rahe with the support of the 
government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Newburn and Rahe elaborated    
upon the plans of the original study group, which suggested appointment of    
specialists to set up networks of observers in each of the major observing    
disciplines, establishment of an international oversight committee,           
coordination with the planned space projects, and cooperation with amateur    
observers.                                                                    
                                                                              
    In 1981 a Steering Group of 22 scientists residing in 12 different        
countries was appointed by NASA to help establish the other parts of the IHW  
and to advise on its operation. Later this international group became         
independent of NASA, elected its own chairman, and added and/or replaced      
members as it felt necessary. The Steering Group selected Discipline          
Specialists based on formal proposals submitted in response to a NASA letter, 
mailed worldwide, seeking cometary scientists to organize the observing       
networks, coordinate their activity, and later to assist in archiving the     
resulting data. By the time of the 1982 IAU meeting a complete administrative 
organization was in existence, awaiting its acceptance and imprimatur by that 
worldwide group.                                                              
                                                                              
    The original study at JPL suggested that the most important product of the
IHW should be an archive of all the data. The archive was not to replace the  
normal interpretation and publication in technical journals. Rather it was to 
complement those publications by establishing a comprehensive database        
suitable for further studies requiring reduced but uninterpreted data from    
many observers and different disciplines. The complete archive would be given 
to each observer contributing to it and made available to institutes          
worldwide. Cost of this publication would be borne by NASA. Initially this was
envisioned as a printed archive. Almost immediately it became obvious that to 
maintain full quantitative accuracy a digital version of the archive would be 
necessary. The logic leading to the selection of CD-ROMs as the digital medium
is presented in another file.                                                 
                                                                              
    In 1981 Newburn and Rahe presented the IHW idea to the first joint meeting
of the space agencies planning to send probes to Halley. That meeting led to a
permanent organization known as the Interagency Consultative Group (IACG). The
IACG was especially interested in the proposed Astrometry Network of the IHW  
as a possible source of data for their spacecraft navigation, and the IHW     
continued to be represented at IACG meetings as long as their primary agenda  
item was Halley. When NASA decided to shift its ISEE (International Sun-Earth 
Explorer) spacecraft into a trajectory encountering Comet Giacobini-Zinner    
(G-Z), it was natural to request that observations of G-Z be coordinated by   
the IHW as well, and this was done.                                           
                                                                              
    In publishing the archive there seemed to be no good reason to mix G-Z    
data with those of Halley. Further, with the G-Z observations completed much  
earlier than those of Halley, publication of a separate "G-Z Archive" would   
offer a chance to make a final test of the end-to-end data handling           
capabilities of the IHW. All IHW software necessary for Halley therefore was  
utilized to produce a test CD of the G-Z data. That test disc was used by 100 
different scientists in the same way as the final Halley archive is intended  
to be used and tested for readability and accessibility. The "real" and final 
G-Z archive disc distributed here together with the Halley discs is thus the  
product of a long developmental process which we hope has led to a package of 
use to many scientists.                                                       
                                                                              
     At this writing the decision has been made to prepare camera ready copy  
for a printed version of the archive, while personnel and facilities are still
available for the job. A printed archive would be useful to many people, and  
an archive printed on acid-free paper would have true archival durability. The
durability of CDs is unknown, and even if they survive without problems until 
the next apparition of Halley, CDs may be as obsolete as Edison cylindrical   
phonograph records by 2061. The actual printing of the archive awaits         
availability of funds, however, which makes printing before FY 1992 unlikely. 
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                Ray L. Newburn, Jr.      JÅrgen Rahe                          
                                                                              
                                                                              
                 Leaders, International Halley Watch                          
                                                                              
                                                                              
                           November, 1990                                     
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
